From Hanselman is.com. It's Hansel
minutes or weekly discussion with
web developer and technologists. Scott
Hanselman hosted by Carl Franklin. This
is Lauren's Ryan announcing show
number one 43. Recorded live
from South Africa, Thursday, December 18th, 2008. Support
for Hanselman it's just provided
by Tellerik rad controls, the
most comprehensive suite of components
for windows forms and asp.net
web applications online@wwwdotteldrikdotcomandby.net developers journal
the world's leading.net developer magazine
online at www dot
dot com. In this episode,
Scott talks with Victor, a
lawyer and lecturer from the
university of the pseudo. Hi,
this is Scott Hanselman, and
this is another episode of
Hansel minutes. And again, like
I was last week, I'm
still here in South Africa and
rather than doing it focus
technology podcast for the next
couple of weeks, I'm doing
man on the street interviews
here in South Africa with real
people today. I'm fortunate enough
to sit down with Victor
who is a lecturer at
the university of . Thank
you so much for taking
the time to talk to
me. Hello. So I think
that the people that are
listening to this show may
not be familiar with Lisha
too, and how it is
situated in the African continent.
Maybe you could give me
a little bit of geographical
context. Yes. Les Sutro is
a tiny country. It is
located insights of Africa. It
is the only country in
Africa, which is completely surrounded
by South Africa. Every time you
cross the border of lessor
or you walk into South Africa
and it is formally a
British colony, and it got
its independence in the 1960s
during the time of a
path. It, so you can
imagine that a immediate loud
of lizard, there was a
path that, and inside a
lessor, there was a free
country. There were lots of
political difficulties at the time.
Now, why is it that
it's a country and not
a province of South Africa? Well,
I think when the British
came in, it was essentially
the three, such two size
countries. First, there was a
sweat Swaziland, and then Botswana,
which a British protectorates, but
they colonized less sort of,
it was not a British
protectorate like Swaziland. They made
it into a colony and
it came directly under the
Queens rule. It was a
very set up that came
through lizard. Now I've heard
people refer to it as
Lesotho and a suit to
suit the Soto. What is
the correct way to pronounce
the country? Well, I think
by Soto was at the
people, the indigenous people, they,
they call it Lisutu bad.
It is spelled L E
S or T H O.
So most of us call
it less Sato because of
the way it is spelled.
But for the West, it
is less true to the
land of the Bosu too.
That's what it means. Yes.
Your lecture at the university.
And what is your specialty?
Well, I teach mainly in
the legal field. I am
a lawyer, so I do,
I teach different courses in
law, things like family law,
commercial law, property law varies
depending on the needs of
the faculty from time to
time. Now, my understanding of
the law is limited to
what goes on in the
U S and from what
I watch on us, legal
TV shows like law and
order. And these kinds of
drama shows. What I know
about the British system is
that they have barristers instead
of attorneys, but I really
don't understand how law works
on the, on the continent.
Are there multiple legal systems?
Does each country have their
own legal system? Well
is a Jew, a legal
system. Basically it means that
we have two legal systems,
the customary law, which is
the indigenous law of the
pursuit of people, which is
applied mainly to the, in
the villages. It's agitated by
achieves and so on. And
then we have the inherited
law, the Roman dash legal
system, which was brought in
into Lisutu as much as
South Africa, Botswana, Zimbabwe, and Namibia.
Now, what it means basically
is that when the British
came and colonized South Africa Fest,
they found that the Dutch
had settled it in the
Cape and they will operating
the Dutch legal system. So
then when they extended their
occupation, interlace Soto, they decided
that the law which was
operating in the Cape will
be the same as the
low, which is operating in
a risotto ended that applied
to all the other colonies.
They actually pass the law
to specific Cali legitimize, the
application of Roman dash legal
system. They didn't bring in
English law, but what happened
was that the people were
administering the Roman Dutch legal
system where English lawyers. So
there was a lot of
influence of English law. They
were being asked to apply
Roman dash law, but we're
not trained in the Roman
Dutch law. So at the
end of the day, the
inherited road, the colonial became
an Armagh emission way mixture
of English law and Roman
dash slope. So in most
of our laws, although we
took off Roman bachelor is
the law, which is applicable.
There's a lot of influence
of English law. And in
modern days, because of that,
the growth of the global
village, even American loam in
things like commercial law, insurance,
property laws, there's a lot
of a mixture of Anglo
American laws into our systems.
So basically we have the
customary law, as well as
the imported Roman dash, which
is strictly speaking, not from
international lawyer as such. So
it's a Roman Dutch law
400 years in the future
and kind of broken off
into its own style. Yes.
And you actually borrow laws
from the, from the Anglo,
from the American system from
other systems. Yes. I think
what basically lawyers say we
have, we draw from the
Roman dashed law is the
sources of law, the leading
judgments, the leading, what we
call it, the jewelries, those
who wrote about Roman dash
law, but the influences from
other legal systems like English
fabric, we say those are
persuasive so that if a
judge is deciding a case
and there's no Logies applicable,
he can be persuaded to
borrow from other systems. Really.
So a precedent is almost
set kind of an implicit
precedent by a case that's
being done somewhere else in
an entirely different country and
entirely different legal system. Yes.
What we, we normally, what
judges do they apply precedents
from previous decisions within their
own country? Let's say presidents
from Minnesota, but in the
absence of a precedent from
within Lesotho, they have to
look at other likes legal
systems and see whether a
decision in a similar case
in another foreign country would
persuade them to apply that
particular judgment and the foreign
countries they would normally look
to. First of all, England,
the former colonial country and
the American legal systems as
well. Because as I'm saying
in the commercial world, the
laws are becoming more and
more universal so that it
won't be strange to find
that in certain aspects, American
law and lesser to law
at the same. Hi, this
is Scott Hanselman with a
word from our sponsor. Do
you know how to build
web 2.0 Ajax applications with
web 1.0 components? You really
can't. If you want to
do the next generation web
applications you'll need next generation
components. Just like the ones
that our friends at Telerik
have got their rad controls
for ESPN at Ajax. It's
a huge pack of web
controls built on top of
asp.net Ajax. That'll add previously
impossible performance interactivity to your
next project. The new controls
mirror Ajax API from asp.net.
So development is really straightforward.
The client scripts are shared.
So loading time is not
a problem. If you just
had a couple of properties
and you'll be able to
automatically bind to web services
for a really efficient operation,
the new rad editor from
ESPN Ajax, Telerik loads up
to four times faster than
before. And the new rad
grid handles thousands of records
and just milliseconds, but as
always, it's best to try
for yourself. So you can
visit  dot com slash
ASP, net Ajax, and download
a trial. Thanks a lot.
So globalization is becoming the
defacto standard to the point
of even contracts being similar
all over the Yes, indeed.
There is a lot of
that is I'm saying, especially
in the laws, dealing with
business in general where the
local business or international business
Now customary law might be
something that's interesting to people.
These are, these are laws
that were there before white
folks showed up. This is
for dealing with struggles and
conflicts within perhaps a chief's
influence area of village. Is
that correct? Yes. Customer low
base Cali operates at a
very simplistic level. Familial relations
neighbor relations. You look at
situations where, for example, a
boy from one family, impregnates,
a girl from another family,
usually in the villages that
will be dealt as a
customary matter because in the
context of lesser term, eh,
for a boy to, in
pregnant another Gail before marriage,
that raises a question of
liability on the part of
the boy that you be.
He will be liable to
play damages, which is six
head of cattle for every
new pregnant at that particular
Gail before negotiations for marriage
can even take place that
the very act of impregnating
another, a girl from another
family before marriage is actually
treated as a, is a
wrongful act. Is it hot
As a tort? So even
now after he's paid six
head of cattle, though, is
there not an obligation like
in the U S there's
kind of an implicit obligation
to take care of your
child until they're 18? And
there are laws for, you
know, parental obligations or is
it simply pay your six
head of cattle and move
on? Apparently there is a
conflict here between customary lawyer
in the received law, or
because it customary law. If
the boy or the family
of the boy pay their
six, eight of cattle, they
are done with that child
in the absence of marriage,
it is the girl's family.
Lou must look after that,
but to collect child should
the family of the boy
wants that child at a
later stage, when the child
grows up, they are required
to pay extra cattle. But
on the other hand, the
received law says that if
you father a child, your
light to maintain. So it
now depends on which law,
the family of the Guild
chooses to, to utilize. If
they choose to utilize the
Roman national law, then the
boy may be asked to
the Gail can go to
court and claim maintenance under
the  legal system. But
if they are, they go
for the customary law, then
it means that the family
must ask for the head
of cattle. It doesn't, it
doesn't that require a, a
level of education on the
part of the girl and
the girl's family. They may
not know that these laws
exist. I think we shouldn't
underestimate people and see that
they're not educated. I think
in general, they do know
what the law says, but
the families, as far as
I realized in most of
these Southern Africa in Africa,
they do what I call
in legal teams, forum, shopping.
They look at which legal
system will best serve their
interests. If customer law will
best serve their interests, then
they'll go for the customer
who option. Let's say, for
example, the, the, the boy
who has been pregnant, the
boy has impregnated together is
not working, but is the
family know that the parents,
they have lots of cattle,
they'll go for the customer
option. But suppose the young
man is working is ending
your salary. The girl may
decide to hope for the
Roman Dutch legal system and
claim maintenance, because he has
an income from which he
can claim maintenance. That's quite
clever. Yes. Yeah. That is
exactly what happens. And we
have headaches, similar experience in
other countries like Zimbabwe and
so on. But I have
to say that in general,
my experience that in Southern
Africa, men who filed that
children out of marriage generally
do not want to look
after them. And we men
in general, struggle to get
maintenance, even from those that
are working in our wheeling,
to be able to afford,
to pay men in maintenance
for children, they will refuse
to pay to say and
say, if you want me
to pay maintenance, let me
give me the child, but
I will not give you
my money, because if I
give you my money, I'm
not going to give it
to my son. That is
the attitude. Unfortunate. Now you,
you, your specialty is, is
not just law, but also
women's issues in law. And
you've recently been working on
a paper on how the
legal system actually kind of
supports masculinity. Yes, to a
large extent, we live in
a men's world. I remember
that recently, I read a
book called immense world talking
about masculinity. Basically we have
a situation where patriarchy or
the dominance of men is
the order of the day.
And it does not matter
where they are talking about
Southern Africa or the United States
or any other country in
the world. We may have
countries where women have gained
certain advantages against men, but
in general, we are looking
at a system where the
legal system itself is generally
unresponsive to women's needs in
the sense that if I
can use a very, very
simple example, we have a
crime in, in my, in,
in Lesotho whereby a woman
who commits a abortion will
be criminally prosecuted. But the
law does not say anything
about the person who is
responsible for the pregnancy, even
in the case where the
boy after him pregnant, and
the girl disappears will say,
says, I have, I am
not responsible. You are on
your own. And then we
also have other crimes like,
eh, which are unfortunately real.
We have had women who
would damp babies, women who
kill babies when they are
born. And in those cases,
the law will punish the
women, regardless of the social
circumstances that is posed to
the woman to do such
a thing. I don't think
that any normal person would
want a woman would want
to kill a young child,
but we see a situation
where women are pushed and
the lawyer is unresponsive. And
another offense, which is even
common, I would say in
countries like the United States, the
battered woman syndrome, where women
pushed to the point where
they killed the husband, because
that is the only defense
mechanism left to them. But
the, what does the law
say? You are guilty of
murder in most cases, but
the law has not moved
fast enough to see what
are the circumstances, what leads
this woman to do this.
And unfortunately also in our
part of the world, generally,
the issue of violence of
men against women is either
not taken seriously, or it
is general underestimate. It. It
is no man clipping a
woman or punching is not
something that can be taken
quite seriously, unless do man
is severely injured. Then we
say, but people need to
say that it was wrong
to be dizzy. They say
you went too far in
disciplining this particular person. So
that is the kind of
attitudes that women have to
deal with. And it's a
massive problem In, in the,
in the States and the
County that I live in,
they recently changed some of
the laws with regards to
domestic violence, such that if,
if I, if, if you
were my wife and I
grabbed your wrist, I just
squeezed us a little harder
than you. It, and you
decided to call the police.
You could say, lock him
up. I don't want to
see him for a month.
So they've swung the pendulum
all the other way. Any
physical, any unwanted physical contact
then becomes a domestic violence
issue if, if the, if
the woman or, or if
the man in this case,
but usually it's focused towards
the woman says that I
don't want to be touched
in that way. So that
instantly there, the husband is
drug drug away. Yes. I
think that is, I would
commend that kind of law
for the simple reason that
in the majority of cases,
a woman who was wristy
has been attached will not
learn to quote and say
that somewhat ties to my,
at least, I mean the
extremes, but, but basically Lila
is sending a clear message
that it is wrong to
use violence of any form
against anybody. You must respect
somebodies bodily integrity. But on
the ally hand, in Lesotho,
for example, we don't have
domestic violence legislation. It is
treated as assault. So a
woman whose is been violated
by the husband physically here's
to pursue common assault by
sold, to do grievous bodily
harm and so on. And
that is a, not an
ordinary criminal process. And we
know that the criminal process
takes forever. Unfortunately, the police
attitudes also Elman who comes
to say that my husband
clips me, but with nothing
to show that there's been
some kind of physical damage,
we'll be laughed out of
the police station, they'll say,
but what did you do
to, we don't see anything.
And I've actually had personal
experience where a person I
know had that kind of
a situation. And the police
were very, very reluctant to
press charges. And eventually that
case never went beyond the
police station. Okay. But isn't
that that's an example, not
necessarily the law not being
on her side, because it
was in fact, but rather
that's institutionalized a patriarchy culturally.
Yeah, partly. Yes. I would
say that, but I would
go so far as to
say that the problem is
bigger than that. If we
had a law, which for
beads domestic violence, then you
could begin to change attitudes.
You could begin to train
the police that any form
of violence, even if it
does not lead to any
injury is wrong. But in
this case, because we don't
even have a law, which
says that a  domestic
violence is a specialized kind
of problem. It happens within
the confines or private department
and generally is not readily
seen. So you need specifically
legislation about, I see. So
even the simple fact of
naming it and giving it
a name and pointing to
it and saying that is
different, and that is wrong.
Even though the result may
still be similar to an
assault charge. That is valuable.
Yes, it is a first
step. I would say South Africa
is domestic violence legislation, but
South Africa is one of the
highest incidents of domestic violence.
But I believe that by
passing that law, they've put
the Fest a break. If
you like even a difficult
building process. It seems to
me that the countries in
Africa that take a problem
head on name it and
start coming forward with cultural
reconciliation, that this is a
problem. Like for example, the
way Uganda handled the HIV
crisis. And now the way
that that South Africa has started
to kind of demystify AIDS,
moving from myth to reality,
trying to think about very
publicly everywhere. As I move
around South Africa, I see signs
and billboards and television commercials
that are making sure that
people know their rights. You
cannot be fired from your
job because you have HIV.
It seems like some kind
of a Countrywide expression of,
of domestic violence and the
problem of domestic violence. The
same way that they're doing
with AIDS could, could move
the ball forward. Yes. I
think that it's very important
to go public about these
particular things. Let me just
share one Pepsi, one last
example of what we are
talking about until very recently
in Soto, we didn't, it
was not a crime where
it has been raped. His
wife. We didn't have a
crime called marital rape, but
in 2003, they passed a
law which makes marital rape
on offense. Now that is
not lead to a rash
of people going to court
to say, my husband has
raped me or that, but
it is a sign that
the law is coming to.
The reality that rape can
even take place within an
intimate relationship. So that to
me is a clear indication
that with some of these
culturally changed problems, you need
to have a law that
sends a message, but at
the same time, we then
need to mobilize the people,
raise consciousness and so on
so that the law can
then support that change in
the attitude. It's definitely a
step forward. Well, thank you
very much. Victor lecturer from
the university of the PSU
for taking the time to
chat with me. Thank you
very much.